Good afternoon everybody.
My name is Steven Tona.
I work on the QuickTime product
marketing team and I deal mostly
in the streaming side of things.
And today's session is going
to be a really good session.
It's going to be two case studies.
One from the University of Wisconsin who
has set up an IPTV-based streaming
solution for their entire campus network.
And that gentleman's name is
Dave Schrader and he's going to walk
us through exactly how they built that
and how they've actually incorporated
a lot of the Mac OS X technologies
to provide a really TV-like
experience on your computer.
And then after Dave is going
to be Nate Caplin from the
American Electric Power Company to
talk about how they're using and how
they've built out QuickTime streaming
services for all of their
internal corporate communications.
So without further ado,
I'd like to invite Dave on
stage to kick it off.
Thanks Steven.
Hello,
thanks everyone for coming out today.
Ready for the campus bash tonight?
Yeah.
I'm Dave Schrader,
University of Wisconsin-Madison,
and what I'm going to
be talking about today
is a system that we built
to deliver cable TV to the
University of Wisconsin campus
using an IP based system.
So we wanted to replace an aging
actual coaxial cable TV network that
the University had been operating
for pretty much the last 20 years,
and we wanted to kind of piggyback
on a large network upgrade
initiative that we had in progress.
Now some of you may have
heard me speak last year.
I talked last year about this as well,
but we have a lot of new stuff
going on and that's some of what
I'm going to talk about today too.
So for those of you who
were here last year,
some of this stuff is
going to be a repeat.
But we looked at a lot of
options from different vendors.
Video Furnace, Microsoft, Reel,
some other MPEG based solutions,
and we eventually decided
on QuickTime technologies.
And once we decided on QuickTime,
then it turned out that Apple's
server was not the best solution.
So we decided to go with
the QuickTime solution.
And we decided to go with the
QuickTime solution because we thought
that the QuickTime solution was
the best solution for our customers.
We thought that the QuickTime solution
was the best solution for our customers.
So we're going to talk about some of
the decisions we made in coming to
the pilot that we deployed and how we
actually went about that deployment and
the hardware and software that we used.
So here's some of the background.
We operated this coax network that we
call the Academic Television Network,
or the ATN, for many years.
And in addition to some
local university content,
things like lecture halls,
our own production facilities,
and things of that nature,
we also had some local cable TV channels.
And we had an agreement with a local
cable operator that's been acquired
and changed names so many times
and is now Charter Communications.
And that agreement has stayed and
was the basis for actually carrying
the channels on our new system.
And the new system we call the
Digital Academic Television Network,
or ATN, and our agreement with the cable
operator carried over for these channels.
So our main motivation for
doing this was twofold.
We wanted to... First of all,
the old network was becoming
really expensive to maintain.
It was hard to find equipment.
It was hard to find skilled
cable television folks.
It was hard to have people crawling
around in steam tunnels and
repairing the equipment as it broke.
And at this same time,
we were upgrading the network,
and we thought that it would
be a good time to go to IP.
But let's take a little bit of
a look at the history that we
went through in getting here.
So I'm going to blast
through some of these.
Bottom line is, in 1980, the university,
we were operating a UNIVAC 1108 computer,
and we were starting to get
requests from various entities on
campus to connect to this thing.
And we realized that
with twisted-pair copper,
we would soon fill all the cable
conduits in the computer science
building where this was located.
So we turned to an
RF transmission system.
That turns out was very similar
to a cable television system.
And because it was,
several departments approached
us and started asking if they
could put video on this network.
And we allowed them to.
And so that's when this all started.
And then over the next several years,
we went through various stages
of upgrading the network.
And in 1994,
another important thing happened.
And we actually operate a separate video
network for our dorms called the RTN,
or the Residential Television Network.
And that has the array of
all of the channels that our
local cable operator provides,
all the analog channels,
which is 77 channels.
So most of our dorms are
actually wired for coax,
and that's how they get teased.
And so we're going to be
using that for our TV now.
But the new buildings we're building,
we're not wiring with coax.
Everything is going to be network-based.
Everything is going to be IP-based.
So we needed a solution
for that going forward.
[Transcript missing]
One of the main things that
we're doing is standardization.
So we're going to standardize
on management practices,
equipment, monitoring,
deployment-- everything that we
can we're going to standardize on.
We're going to converge everything to IP.
This includes exploring things
like doing video over IP,
doing voice over IP,
and retiring some of the legacy
protocols that we operated like
AppleTalk and IPX from the network,
and use automation.
Wherever possible.
The other critical change that we made,
which was a difficult one,
was we changed the funding
model from bandwidth to people.
So our new model is based on however
many people a department has,
and this is an ongoing billing,
so it provides us with a revenue source
to upgrade the network going forward.
And one of the other things that
was critical that came with this new
network and the consistency that we're
able to deploy it with is support
for something called IP multicast.
And we're going to talk about
that a little bit more later,
but it's critical to deploying
something like a service like this,
in my estimation,
because it allows you to deliver
as many people can be listening
in on the content as you want,
and the overall impact on the network
is still that of just one stream.
You can think of it as kind of picking up
an extension in a house on a telephone,
and other people are just listening in.
There's not any more
bandwidth that's being used.
And for more information, Internet2,
which is a consortium of
educational institutions that
operate this own separate network,
Internet2 is also an organization,
is one of the big
proponents of multicast,
and you can go to that
URL for more information.
[Transcript missing]
The Xserve solution that
we ended up deploying,
which you'll see in a moment,
was a lot less expensive
than dedicated products.
So we had things like dedicated encoders
from companies like Tanberg and Nviveo,
which are professional,
industrial-grade solutions.
But they're about $30,000
to $50,000 per encoder.
And that was really hard for us to
justify if we were looking at doing
something like 80 or more channels.
With the Xserve solution,
we can do each channel for
around $3,000 to $5,000,
depending on the configuration.
And some configurations,
we can even do two channels per encoder,
so that cuts the cost in half.
And of course, the other thing,
QuickTime Streaming Server,
QuickTime Broadcaster, free.
And another huge win for QuickTime,
the client is free for
Mac OS and Windows.
So we have a major vendor
commercial-supported player that's free,
and we don't have to worry about
the encumbrances of royalties and
per-seat client licensing that we do.
did with some of the other solutions.
And then a little bit-- some of the
other corollary reasons-- QuickTime has
some interesting capabilities that
we can leverage in this solution.
QuickTime Text Track allows us
to deliver closed captioning
content separate from the video.
We don't have to overlay it on the video.
When we went to other vendors
and asked about how we're
gonna do closed captioning,
we were really surprised when
some people's suggestions were,
"Run two encoders for every channel,
one with closed captioning and
one without." And that seemed
like a really crazy idea,
so we knew there was a better way,
and QuickTime Text Track lets us do that.
QuickTime Skins we're
not using right now,
but we have experimented
with this in the past,
and I think we're gonna go
back to this in the future.
Let's just deploy, you know,
essentially a client list.
I mean,
the only client you have is QuickTime,
but you don't have to
download anything else,
and we can have a custom interface
presented to the end user.
And because of the
granularity of this system,
other uses of--it wasn't really
a closed turnkey solution like
some of the competitive products.
So we--last year,
I was telling you we were
exploring some alternate uses,
like, you know,
doing a closed captioning search
database for research purposes,
video archival, and custom players,
and this year,
I'm happy to tell you that I can
actually show you some of these things.
So here's what we deployed
on in our pilot that's been
up and running for over,
for about a year and a half,
two years now, and in a production
capacity for the last year.
We have an Xserve that is the head
node for this system that's the web
front end and does some monitoring
and has some communication with
the individual encoding nodes.
And we threw a monitor and keyboard and
mouse on it for local administration.
This is in our rack.
We'll show you pictures later.
And we have Xserve cluster nodes that
we use as all of our streaming nodes.
And those do the closed
captioning capture and,
most importantly, they do the encoding
of the video and audio.
And we have some support equipment that
we use with each of these encoders,
too.
We use a rack-mount TV tuner
and have analog video going
into a FireWire converter.
And that's how the video and
audio gets into the machine.
And then we have some closed captioning
decoders that connect via serial ports.
And there's all the exact hardware
that we're actually using.
And one of the big moves that we're going
to be making soon is switching from the
dual 1 GHz G4 Xserves we have right now
to probably dual 2.3 GHz Xserve G5s.
And the major reason we're making
that change is to support H.264.
Now on this topic,
I might mention that even
though H.264 requires a lot
more horsepower to encode live,
we found that it requires about
twice the horsepower to live encode.
But the great thing is it gives you
twice the quality at the same time.
So you can get a lot of data right.
And I know that's kind
of a qualitative thing,
but when you see it,
it does really make a difference.
And the software that we're using,
of course, Mac OS X Server,
QuickTime Broadcaster.
And QuickTime Broadcaster has the
ability to do multicast broadcast
directly from Broadcaster itself.
So we don't even need
any other applications.
We just have Broadcaster configured on
each client or each encoding server,
excuse me.
And it doesn't even need a
streaming server to support it.
Broadcaster encodes,
plants it directly on the
network in a multicast format,
and we're done.
Apple Remote Desktop, of course,
we use for monitoring, Server Monitor,
and in our data center,
we also use HP OpenView as
a monitoring solution.
And on the client, of course,
we use QuickTime Player.
But since we're using open standards,
we can actually support playback
on many other platforms.
We can use VLC on Linux, Solaris,
or Mac OS and Windows for that matter.
And many of the MPEG-4 compliant
devices that are out there also
are able to play back this content.
When we were looking for set-top boxes,
after the Mac Mini came out, we realized,
hey, here's a box that's got DVI.
It's small.
It's quiet.
It's got a DVD drive.
And it can play back this content,
so why don't we start using that?
So we are actually deploying Mac Minis
in test deployments right now in
essentially an appliance-like capacity.
And we have one of these in operation
right now and another one in test.
And we have some interaction with the
specialty player application that we
wrote that we'll talk about later.
So...
The other thing that we do on each
encoding server is we want to set these
essentially up like appliances as well.
So here's kind of the
general practices we use.
Xserve boots,
logs in as a broadcasting user.
In our case, the user's called Dayton.
Whenever anything goes
wrong with the server,
if some service hangs or if the
server itself hangs and Watchdog or a
hardware monitor is able to catch it,
it's pretty good about just
rebooting and coming back up.
Now even though that's a rare occurrence,
if something like that does happen,
we want the server to obviously come
back up and be in the state of doing
what it's supposed to be doing,
which is encoding and broadcasting.
Same thing with QuickTime Broadcaster.
If something happens to
QuickTime Broadcaster itself,
we use a monitoring script that
I'll show you on the next slide.
So QuickTime Broadcaster started
by a very simple Apple script
with its configuration that it
has on that particular client,
which is very simple,
and then it just starts broadcasting.
Our closed captioning capture
script is spawned by Watchdog,
and if it dies for any reason,
It just gets restarted.
And we use a cron job
that runs every minute.
That's a really short script that just
checks to see if Broadcaster is running,
and if it's not, relaunches Broadcaster.
And even though these anomalies are
a rarity and definitely not the norm,
and we rarely see them,
we do log to see when
these things happen.
It's good to know that they're there,
because whenever anything does happen,
we have confidence that the server
is just going to keep going.
So,
that's kind of a brief on this system.
So what's new,
especially for those of you
who were here last year?
And the huge thing that's
new is QuickTime 7.
H.264 is probably one of the most
significant additions to QuickTime 7
and it is an amazing codec.
Now,
When you do static encoding
for files that are just going
to be on-demand type content,
you can take your sweet time,
run it on any hardware,
and it's just a matter of how long
you want to wait for how high of a
quality you want the file to be encoded.
When you do live streaming,
you don't really have a choice
but to live within the constraints
of your processing power.
So H.264 is very processor-hungry,
but we've found that on
dual G5 configurations,
we can do 640x480 or 720x480
depending on our input,
30 frames per second,
the best quality setting of H.264, and...
I think that's about it
on that configuration.
So it's, you know,
essentially what you'd expect to be a
very good quality standard definition
broadcast in under 1.5 megabits a second.
And that's actually really impressive.
Now the other huge things
that QuickTime 7 brought,
and along with Broadcaster 1.5,
and some of you in this room
may know what I'm talking about
when I mention these things,
but QuickTime Broadcaster historically,
probably because of processing power
that would be required in the past,
threw out half of the vertical
frames of the DV input.
And this is probably because
back in the days of the,
you know, blue and white G3,
you'd be nuts to try to
do 640 by 480 encoding.
But now it's actually possible
on the hardware that we have.
So QuickTime Broadcaster has been
updated and allows full frame
input from a lot of devices that
it didn't formerly allow it from,
most notably DV.
Another thing that's
new is Dayton Player,
which is a Mac OS X native
Cocoa application that uses QtKit in
QuickTime 7 and just uses the native
QuickTime frameworks that provides
a TV-like interface to OS X.
It gives a remote control and some
informational overlays on the screen,
things you'd expect from
this type of an application.
It makes people feel like they're using
a TV and also has hooks that allow some
of our classroom AV control systems.
On our campus we use NetLynx
AMX AV switch control systems
at the front of the classroom.
These devices can send out just a
Telnet command and the Mac Mini or
whatever device is there can just
listen on a port and the user can
go up to the front of the room and
press TV on our control system.
That spawns the QuickTime player.
They can touch CNN.
Another command is sent.
The player changes to CNN and
the user doesn't even know
they're using a Mac Mini or that
it's anything other than TV.
Except for the telltale cue
and the little buffering
thing as the channel loads.
And because we built our system in such a
way that it was pretty open and granular,
my organization,
the Division of Information Technology,
which is kind of the
central IT body at UW,
didn't even do this.
Brian Deeth,
who's an IT person in our School of
Journalism and Mass Communication,
decided that he wanted to explore with
his faculty some research applications
and we had a closed captioning
search system that got developed,
which we'll talk about
in a little bit here too.
But Brian thought, "Hey,
wouldn't it be neat to have a
native Mac OS X application to view
this?" So this was written and then
provided to the campus community.
And this is one of the great
examples of the type of
flexibility that QuickTime offers.
And this was what I was just
talking about a moment ago.
We started doing text and
actually video archiving as well.
So several months ago we started
capturing all the closed captions
and all those captioning texts
from all of our channels.
It's all indexed and inserted
into a MySQL database.
We also capture thumbnails every
minute of the video and insert those
into the database as binary objects.
And a custom PHP web page
allows the--provides the user
interface for this and allows
people to enter in search terms,
search by times, search by pretty much
whatever parameters they want,
and retrieve the content.
And right now we're archiving
video on a test basis.
The video is retrieved using
specially crafted smile URLs.
And this demonstration really shows
the potential for being able to do a
campus-wide DVR or TiVo-like system.
Why have people record it individually on
their clients when we have 80,000 users,
when we can just record
everything centrally and then
provide it to the campus?
And this was also developed in
cooperation with Brian Deeth
at the School of Journalism.
and this, we think,
is going to be a great research tool.
So here's a typical Dayton node.
We have our Xserve,
we have a FireWire converter,
we've got our closed captioning decoder,
and we have a rack-mount TV tuner.
In some of the boxes we also have
a Miglia Alchemy TV PCI card.
That's just a TV tuner.
And that can operate completely
independent of everything else.
We could have nodes that only
had the TV tuners in them,
but we have some nodes that have
all of the stuff that you see here.
So what does Dayton look like?
There is our pilot rack.
Xserve's intermixed with
the rack-mount TV tuners,
and they're not so deep.
So what we found is that in the
back we had one U of open space,
and that's where we stuff our
firewire converter and our
closed captioning decoder.
Now, you might not want to
have all this kind of,
you know,
this much external support equipment
for each of these channels,
and that's why as soon as we could we
started exploring the Miglia solution.
And for our next phase,
what we're most likely going
to be doing is getting Miglia
cards for each of the servers,
and then we're going to do away with
all the support equipment and just
have a completely internal solution,
one U per channel.
Here's our web page.
This is what users see if
they hit the web interface.
This is an example of one of the channels
just being played in QuickTime Player,
an example of one of the
channels with closed captioning.
And here is Dayton Player.
So this is our new Player application.
It's completely self-contained.
It does not use QuickTime Player.
It uses QuickTime and QTKit directly.
And it, as you can see,
has all the buttons you'd expect
to find on a remote control and
has the overlays you'd expect to
find on a TV-type application.
We also have a presets drawer that comes
out and we'll show you how that works.
It's pretty nifty.
One of the other things
that Dayton Player does is
since we go directly to the
QuickTime frameworks and bypass Player,
we can support full screen
without QuickTime Pro.
Here's our search page.
Here's an example of some of
the search results and I'm going
to show you some of that now.
Can we switch to demo one please?
Now, normally, before I start here,
normally we deliver all this content
exclusively via multicast on the
University of Wisconsin campus.
That means that,
and we also use something
called locally scoped multicast.
So the public internet
doesn't support multicast.
So not only does that mean that we
can't go over the public internet,
the locally scoped addresses keep it
on campus even between other campuses
that do support multicast over
internet too and that sort of thing.
So I set up a special unicast
QuickTime streaming server.
We're doing a multicast to unicast relay.
And Brian's added some code to this,
a nice debug menu that lets
us kick over to unicast.
Let me just select that.
And of course we don't want
just anyone to connect.
And if the demo gods are on my side,
we'll have enough bandwidth
for this to work properly.
...after more than three weeks in
captivity... So this is how it works.
You can see how some of these channel
overlays and things like that work,
information.
Presets drawer.
We have a couple of
presets in here already.
Let's switch to the weather channel.
Let's kick it to full screen.
And so you can see what we
have is a very watchable,
standard definition quality TV broadcast
in just over a megabit a second.
text is very readable.
And our concentration was really
on getting text to be readable,
getting text stickers to look right,
getting motion and sporting
events to look right.
So that when people actually wanted
to use this to really watch TV,
they wouldn't feel like they
were being short-changed.
And obviously,
when you do a delivery application
where you're delivering to a computer,
you're kind of inherently limited
in how users can watch the content.
So right now,
this is kind of being deployed in
what I would call a normal TV capacity
in just a couple of locations on
campus where people are hooking up to
external projectors or conventional TVs.
But ideally, we'd like to get to a point
where we can deploy some type of
a standardized set-top box type
solution along with this as well.
So the controller disappears when you
have the mouse idle for a little while.
And just come in here and get
back out of full screen mode.
Oh, and let's switch to-- and oh.
Another thing I should say is all
these channels are dynamically
loaded from a MySQL database.
So as the content that's
available changes,
the channel list here and the
channels that are available within
the player itself will change.
So I can use channel up, down, and here,
and that sort of thing,
or enter the numbers manually.
Or I can just come down and
select a channel individually.
And it loads up, when we're on campus on
the multicast network,
it's only a second or two for
the channel to load and it's
just a little bit longer here.
So this is the kind of,
this is what it looks like and I want to
show you the closed captioning as well.
Normally we do it right in the player,
but when we're off campus we
can't do it in the same way.
So at least I can bring up the closed
captioning that goes along with this.
And there we go.
So, thank you very much.
Normally this appears right in the window
along with the video when you press
this closed captioning button over here.
But you know, this also demonstrates
another thing that--oh,
and here's how the presets thing works.
This is pretty cool.
You just click and hold like
you do on a normal radio,
and then it just gets added.
And you can put it away and you can
also close these windows too and bring
them back or from the window menu.
And since this is all granular,
we can have just the closed
captioning running by itself.
Not that that's useful, but, you know.
Okay.
So the other thing that I want
to show is-- and by the way,
any of you can go to this website,
dayton.wis.edu,
and look at "About Information"
about this project.
Not that that's useful, but, you know.
Okay.
So the other thing that I want
to show is-- and by the way,
any of you can go to this website,
dayton.wis.edu,
So here's our search page and, um... Oh,
oops.
Didn't want to quit.
Tied into our central
authentication service on campus.
Let's pick a couple of channels here,
some news channels.
"Start time 8 a.m., stop time now,
and maybe we use White House as
the example here,
so."
[Transcript missing]
Now Brian Deeth and I put this together--
and another testament to QuickTime is
that Brian Deeth and I put this together
in pretty much just our spare time.
Now George Cook of Apple was also
instrumental in helping us work out
some of the closed captioning capture.
We have a script,
a Python script that does that,
that was done quick and dirty
by George a couple of years ago.
And it's still working.
And that's actually what we use to
insert all of our closed captioning
stuff into the database too.
So here's our search results.
And any of you who've seen
video.google.com might think
this looks very familiar.
And you know what it does,
but I would say that
we thought of it first.
So if I want to, and you know,
so this is great that we can
get the text returned back.
Well, what if I want to watch
this video segment here?
I can click on the video.
And there it is.
And actually, it looks like our bandwidth
may not be on our side here.
Let's just try it again.
There we go.
So if we go down here now
and look at what we selected,
and unfortunately,
I wish that the video would...
There we go.
Okay,
so... So if you look in here in the text,
you can see this is that video
segment that we just brought back.
And this is only a one-minute chunk.
Well, what if you want to do, let's say,
yesterday...
3:00 p.m.
Yesterday, 4:00 p.m.
No search terms.
And aggregation, one hour.
So we're going to get
back that entire hour,
and this brings up another
interesting opportunity.
If you want to just read a
show and skim through the show,
you can.
There is the whole hour right there.
But also,
here's the entire video for that hour.
So this really brings up the possibility
of being able to do a campus-wide video
archival system and we can build an
interface to this that makes sense,
that people could even have
tied into a schedule and go say,
"I want to watch Law & Order from last
Wednesday," and that sort of thing.
So that is Dayton Search.
And if we could switch
back to the slides,
please.
So going forward,
where are we going to go with this?
We are going to move to the Xserve
G5s and we're going to go to
H.264 as our encoding platform.
We're going to move to
QuickTime 7 as a supported player,
especially now that a QuickTime 7
public preview is out for Windows.
Back home,
some people have already started testing
that with our H.264 test channels.
Continue to develop on our
text and video searching.
We're in the middle of trying to
do the legal wrangling necessary to
expand to 77 channels and we think
that we're in good shape there.
And actually we just had some news
from our campus legal department.
We were concerned about whether or
not we could really do this image
and text and video archive on campus.
And our legal staff at the
university has told us,
basically just do it and tell the cable
operator that we think that it's legal.
And...
And along with some of
the fair use provisions,
we feel pretty confident that the content
can be archived for 45 days before any
copyright owner actually has to be asked.
Now obviously this gets
a little bit dicey,
but we're delivering this
content only on our own campus.
So we're going to continue to
develop the Dayton Player and one
other thing that we did pretty neat,
iChat.
You can actually invite
[Transcript missing]
Who to contact?
Dave Devereaux-Weber is the
project manager for Dayton.
He was unable to make it here.
He's one of our network engineers.
Me, I'd be happy to field any
questions from people.
There's my email address.
And Brian Deeth,
who is in the front row over here
and will be here afterwards to
answer any questions you might have.
For more information,
you can visit that website.
That concludes my portion of this
presentation and I'll pass it over to
Nate Caplin of American Electric Power.
Thanks.
Hello everybody,
I'm Nate Caplin from AEP in Columbus,
Ohio.
Today I'm going to be talking about
QuickTime being used for an enterprise
streaming application within a
large corporation on an intranet.
I'll tell you about some
optional webcasting solutions.
We'll be talking about multicast,
kind of like Dave did.
I'll also be touching a little
bit on the new auto-bandwidth
detection feature in QuickTime 7.
And I'll end with some advocacy
for a few changes I'd like to see.
Some of the things you'll learn are
how QuickTime 7 and Tiger can fit well
within an enterprise IT architecture,
how to deploy QuickTime Player to
a lot of Windows desktops.
I'll show you our AEP TV video portal.
We'll talk about how to webcast
live H.264 multiple streams with
Wirecast from a single computer.
And I'll actually try to demo
that if the demo gods help me out.
And a little bit on using
auto-bandwidth detection.
Technology framework for this is all
of the Apple products plus Wirecast.
Dave touched on some of the
differences since last year.
I might expand on that.
Thank you, Apple,
for taking the pro-nag from QuickTime 7.
That helps us a lot.
Now if you can just do
full-screen playback without Pro,
that would be the next great thing.
QuickTime Server 5.5 and Tiger,
the auto-bandwidth detection is something
that we're beginning to experiment with
and we think has a lot of potential.
As Dave mentioned,
Broadcaster 1.5 now has
full high-res DV capture.
Wirecast 2 has come out since last year
and it allows multiple H.264 streams on
the same computer from the same source.
Some other developments, Compressor 2,
part of the new Final Cut 5 suite,
has distributed encoding.
And Tiger and Tiger Server have new
iChat AV features that will allow us
to finally bring video conferencing
through iChat AV inside of our corporate
firewall and perhaps offer that as a
solution to some of our executives.
So a little bit about who AEP is.
We are the largest power
generator in the U.S.
with over 5 million customers in 11
states and over 20,000 employees in
at least 400 different work locations.
Needless to say,
that provides quite a challenge for us
to communicate with all of our employees.
A little bit about who we are within AEP.
Interactive media is a function of our
corporate communications department,
which is responsible for
our internet websites,
our intranet website called AEP Now,
our video portal called AEP TV,
which I'll talk about here shortly,
as well as 200 or more video
projects per year and at least 25
live webcasts that we do per year,
usually town hall style webcasts
of management talking to
employees with interaction from
the employees to talk back.
And our department is also
responsible for the annual report
and other print collateral.
Some of the reasons why we picked
QuickTime to use at AEP are first,
obviously, like most video departments,
we use QuickTime and Max to
produce most of our video projects.
So using QuickTime as the delivery
method is just a lot more seamless
of an integration with our workflow.
But some of the more important
reasons are that QuickTime gives us
a single player that we'll install
on all the versions of Windows that
are deployed within our enterprise.
With Windows Media Player,
which we still support and
used to rely on primarily,
there are different versions required for
different versions of Windows and patches
and bugs and it's been a real problem.
We really appreciate the clean,
fast user interface of QuickTime Player.
Some of its advanced features like
instant on and scrubbing get rid
of the buffering delays that our
Windows Media users are used to.
And our IT department even likes it
because our servers are immune from
the viruses and security threats
that affect Windows media servers.
Of course, open standards are always a
nice selling point and the new,
excellent video quality with
H.264 is really promising.
So, how to deploy QuickTime Player in a
corporate enterprise that's all PCs.
Well,
first you have to get a QuickTime site
license unless you want to send
everybody out to Apple.com.
Fortunately, this is pretty easy to do.
The site license is available
on Apple.com and it's free.
You're going to need to test, obviously,
on all of your desktop configurations
to make sure it doesn't break
anything that you need to use.
But, while you're doing that,
it's a good idea to set the
preferences the way that you'd like,
such as the Hot Pics movie,
the auto-update, icons on the desktop.
And then you can create a disk image for
new PCs so it just simply gets wrapped
into any new PCs that are deployed.
For existing PCs out there
already without QuickTime Player,
we used a product called LandDesk,
which is a remote administration
and network administration
utility that our company uses
to create a custom installer,
basically a difference installer from
a configuration without QuickTime to
a configuration with QuickTime.
And that basically allows us
to forego using the standard
QuickTime installer and prevent users
from being prompted several times
for information and for registering,
that kind of thing.
And our website, AEPTV, uses BrowserHawk,
which is a server-side utility that
can detect any number of configuration
issues on the viewer's PCs,
including whether QuickTime plugin
is installed and what version it is.
If we detect that the user doesn't have
QuickTime at a version that is required,
and if the media is only
available in QuickTime format,
we prompt the user that
QuickTime is required to view this,
and we link them to
the LandDesk installer,
which is quick and easy.
But that actually gets to the last point,
which is driving deployment with content.
Our IT department wasn't very open
to the idea of broadcasting out
or forcing everybody to install
QuickTime Player immediately,
because it is a sizable download,
and we're talking about thousands of PCs.
So what they did agree to was that
we could basically post some of our
content in QuickTime format only,
as long as it wasn't mission-critical
content to start with,
and that would basically drive
the deployment of QuickTime.
drive the deployment of
QuickTime Player gradually.
So AEP TV, our enterprise video portal,
kind of like Dave's DATN player project,
except that this is entirely web-based
and it's designed to float in a small
pop-up window like you see here.
It is the one place to come
for access to all of our videos
on demand as well as our live
webcasts when those are scheduled.
Videos are searchable
by subject and keyword.
We use the homepage, which you see here,
to promote new content.
But there's also menus, as you can see,
to access the video library.
It's tied into our intranet website,
AEP Now,
for related videos that link to stories.
It does collect viewer statistics,
feedback.
It allows viewers to email
videos to other coworkers.
What they're actually
doing is emailing a link,
of course, to download the video files to
their hard drive for local playback
and to order DVD and tape copies.
And, of course,
it's all driven by a database.
backend.
Let me go over and demo that right now.
If we could please switch to demo three.
Great.
So this is my PowerBook,
and I'm going to have to demo
this over our VPN because
this is an internal network.
But what I'll do
And please excuse that I'm
using Internet Explorer.
It's because this was designed and
tested for Internet Explorer on the PC,
and it does have a slight
incompatibility with Safari on the Mac.
So this is AEP Now,
our employee intranet.
It is the default home page for
all AEP employees when they launch
Internet Explorer on their PCs.
Basically,
it allows them to have access to
tools and resources throughout AEP,
and the main section is
constantly updated news.
As you can see,
if there's a story that has a
video linked to it or related,
it has a little icon
next to the headline.
If you go to the page for that story,
there's a sidebar here for AEP TV,
and if you click on that,
it will launch up.
The AEPTV interface, which, excuse me,
let me do that again because I was
doing something in admin a moment ago.
There we go.
The APTV interface,
as you can probably tell,
is driven by Flash,
so Flash 6 is required.
We did that so that we could
basically support some of these
nicer menus and better builds.
But basically when somebody
clicks on a video link,
it takes them directly to the page for
that video where they see the title,
they see a caption,
they get some information
about its duration,
and there's a button for large or small.
Now this, having tested this in advance,
I know that this isn't going to play
reliably because the connection over
the VPN from here is quite slow.
But suffice it to say,
if you're on our network back home,
the video pops up and starts
playing almost immediately.
We do two sizes, a small and a large.
The largest in a 16.9 situation,
the largest 640 by 360,
and this is a 16.9 video.
Let me surf you around the
interface a little bit more
by starting at the home page.
This is where we promote content,
including upcoming webcasts right here.
The video library categorizes
everything by typical subject.
So nuclear, for example,
here's a video about our
Cook Nuclear plant in Michigan.
If you go to the live webcast section,
you'll see any scheduled webcasts,
and the next two that are coming
up are our earnings conference
call for investors and our
employee earnings webcast,
which we always do following that.
If you go to More Info, for example,
this is our live webcasting interface.
Looks very similar to On Demand,
except that the buttons are
basically not available yet,
and it tells us what time and the
date and time that this starts.
One of the unique things that we
do on live webcasts is allow people
to submit questions in advance
and during the live webcasts.
So you could say, you know,
"What do you think
about coal generation?"
We do allow people to submit
things anonymously so that they
can ask sensitive questions,
and people often do.
That's what makes it pretty good.
We allow people to provide feedback on
any video they've seen or any webcast.
Let me real quick go back home.
We do allow people to download videos,
so you can see this video is
posted in several versions.
And I could, oh,
of course it's made for a PC,
so you have to right-click on it.
Excuse me.
And one of the other neat
things we do is the order tape.
We take orders here for tapes or
DVDs and we fill those orders weekly.
And we found this is
a lot more efficient,
of course,
than sending out a bunch of tapes or
DVDs to all these different locations
for people to see who don't have
computers or taking them by hand.
What I want to do now is real quick
take you to the back end of AAP TV,
the admin interface.
Which is of course password protected.
Not nearly as pretty,
but it does the job.
I'll go into the Live Events Manager and
the most recent live event is
scheduled up here at the top.
You'll recall that I submitted a question
for the employee earnings webcast,
so we can go here and see what
questions have been submitted.
And there we go.
It's right in there.
During a live webcast,
let me maybe take you back to the
last employee earnings webcast.
And you can get an idea for
the volume of questions that
comes in and what this -- oh,
excuse me, this is the current one.
I meant to go back to -- here we go.
There we are.
Now, during the live webcast,
the moderator on set
actually views these on a PC,
and as he's going through,
he can mark these as answered,
or he can delete them,
or he can go in and edit them and even
reorder them so that he can have them,
you know, set up to ask an order.
It also gives us a nice way
to track all the questions,
and our CEO personally
answers all the questions,
even the ones that don't get
asked during the live events.
Our clip manager is where all of
the on-demand clips are available.
This takes a moment to load because
there are so many in there now.
We have it set to come
up all on one page.
But this may look familiar
to users of QTSS Publisher,
actually.
It's basically a library of content.
It can be sorted by a
number of different,
you know, by name or by order of
entry into the system.
But one of the things that it does
that we like is tells us for every
video what formats are posted and
gives us access to statistics.
So for example, if I go back to the, oh,
a video called Tools, Texas, English,
I can go to Stats.
And see right away how many times
this video has been accessed.
I'm going to guess this one
hasn't been accessed much because
it's just a copy of a particular
commercial that we've posted.
This, by the way,
would be a great feature for
QuickTime streaming server to have.
All right.
If we can go back to the slides, please.
So, doing live webcasts.
First, let me give a little advice for
anybody thinking about doing this.
As Dave would tell you as well,
setting up live webcasting
can be very dicey,
so you should only do it
for the right reasons,
not just because it's cool.
The right reasons are to have audience
interaction during the live webcasts,
two-way communications,
or if what you're announcing through the
webcast is really big news that everybody
has to hear about at the same time.
It's important to promote it,
or else people aren't going to tune in.
By promote it,
I mean do that through other media,
that is, email, bulletin board postings,
the company newspaper.
Multicast.
Multicast is really the only practical
way to reach hundreds or even thousands
of simultaneous viewers on a network.
Otherwise, the number of Unicast
streams simply overloaded.
If you need to reach hundreds
or thousands of users
on the public internet,
since it does not support multicast,
you'll probably need to contract with
a content delivery network like Akamai.
That's what Apple does, for example.
It's important to post the archived
version of a live webcast quickly.
People expect that,
and a lot of times people can't
tune in immediately during an event,
but it's really handy
if it's available 15,
20 minutes after it's over.
Tracking viewers like we do with
AAPTV really helps you to gain
some traction with upper management
about the usefulness of the webcast.
What we found is that eventually,
live webcasts become a vital
part of the communications link
between employees and executives.
So having a webcasting studio.
We have a traditional
video studio at AAP,
which we call AAP Studios.
You know,
obviously the most important thing when
you're doing a live webcast is to produce
a compelling show in the first place.
That means that ideally you should
script things and you should
rehearse things with a crew.
You need to have high-quality lighting,
audio cameras, and a video switcher.
You can't just do this with a little
DV camera on a tripod in a closet.
It's not going to be very compelling.
Well, technically you could broadcast it.
Nobody's going to want to watch that.
The two-way interaction can be done
through webpages like you saw us do,
but it can also be done by phone call-in.
And we enable that too,
kind of like Larry King Live.
To do the technical
side of the webcasting,
you're going to need the fastest G5
Power Mac that you can get your hands on
with QuickTime Broadcaster or Wirecast.
And if you want the very highest quality
possible in your video and audio streams,
you should probably consider using a
third-party video capture card like
those offered by Aja or Decklink.
Although thanks to
QuickTime Broadcaster 1.5,
you can actually get quite
good quality nowadays from DV.
The two solutions that
you might consider,
Broadcaster or Wirecast,
Broadcaster's great.
As you saw,
it works well for Dave's solution
where basically he's just making
a single version of each channel.
It's free, it's simple,
but it is limited.
Wirecast, which is a commercial
program for about $450,
kind of takes things up a notch by
offering multiple H.264 encoding from
a single computer of the same source,
and as well live into the
stream to kind of use it as a
virtual video studio switcher,
if you like.
We already talked a little bit
about Unicast and Multicast,
but obviously Unicast isn't
practical once you get beyond
a certain number of users.
Some would say that you could use a lot
of relay servers to accomplish that.
You could accomplish
Unicast to a lot of users.
Well, yes, you can do that,
but it does cost a lot of money
and is a real bear to set up.
I think before you invest
your time and effort in that,
you should probably invest your
time and effort in getting your
network administrators to enable
Multicast on your network.
Multicast looks a little
bit more like this.
Certainly is the easiest route if you
can get it to work on your network,
but it is going to require a little bit
of persuasion with your IT department.
Now there are a number of ways, you know,
Dave talked about multicasting
directly from the encoder and then
having a unicast relay to reach
some users on the public internet.
You can do that.
One of the limitations there is that
the encoder has to be on a part of
the network that is multicast enabled,
which can be a problem in our situation
because sometimes we'll go to a
remote location to do a live webcast,
for example,
for our annual shareholders meeting.
So we set up unicast directly from
the encoder to the server and then
we relay a multicast to the network.
We also are effectively providing
unicast to the network from that server
as well for anyone who can't reach it.
receive multicast.
So, setting up a multicast relay.
I'm going to demo this in a minute,
so I'll kind of skip
through these slides,
but this is basically what it looks like.
You're going to need
to know the relay name,
a destination type,
and a destination multicast IP address.
You can check with your
network administrator to get
a multicast IP address that
is legitimate on your network,
but generally it's
anything in the range 239.
You're going to have to set up,
you're going to have to edit the relay,
give it a name, set it to pull the stream
from the server itself.
Here's the window where you get
to actually set your multicast
IP address and your base port number.
The hardest thing right now
in setting up multicast with
QuickTime Streaming Server is the
notion of creating a multicast SDP file.
Unfortunately,
there's no straightforward way to do
this from within the graphical user
interface of QuickTime Streaming Server,
but fortunately it's
not that complicated,
even though this looks scary.
What you're seeing here is the
contents of a unicast SDP file,
Session Description Protocol.
This file is generated by your encoder,
either QuickTime Broadcaster or Wirecast.
It contains some basic information
about the settings of your live webcast,
including the IP address
and port numbers.
To make a multicast file,
you simply open this up and
you change a few key values.
Let me go back there again.
Those values are basically the
multicast IP address and the base port,
and the port numbers for the
audio and the video streams.
It can get confusing when you have
SDP files with different names,
some multicast, some unicast.
I suggest that you come up
with a naming convention.
We use a naming convention
where the files,
you know, we have a low and a
high and a 56 kilobit,
and the unicast SDPs are
UC and the multicast are MC.
Simple.
One additional step some folks
might want to take is to open
up a multicast SDP file in
QuickTime Player and to export a
QuickTime reference movie for it.
The advantage with this is that
that QuickTime movie file can then
be easily emailed around to folks,
made available online,
and it will always open
in QuickTime Player,
whereas sometimes SDP files
can get hijacked by third-party
players like RealPlayer.
Before I go to the demo,
let me touch on Auto Bandwidth
Detection in QuickTime 7.
Those of you who have QuickTime 7
may have noticed a new automatic
setting for the connection speed
in QuickTime's preferences.
This is the default setting in
QuickTime 7 unless you change it.
The way that this actually works is
by using the current refmovie method,
so it is backwards compatible.
Basically you make a reference
QuickTime movie with make refmovie X,
which refers to two or more
QuickTime movies of different sizes,
and you specify the
bandwidth that each requires.
In the past, this would rely on the user
correctly choosing their connection
speed and QuickTime preferences,
which they usually didn't do,
and so it wasn't very practical.
But as long as the user has
QuickTime 7 player and they're
connecting to QuickTime streaming
server on a Tiger server,
the player and the server do a little
bit of a handshake at the beginning
where a small cache file is downloaded
to measure the speed of the connection
and the best choice is chosen.
This will even work on a
progressive download on
demand file from a web server,
as long as the web server
supports HTTP 1.1 byte range.
While the system does
have some limitations,
you know, it's not dynamic, for example,
and the settings aren't that
granular for connection speeds,
it is a good start and it
does work within the existing
framework that we all know.
Here's what MakeRefMovieX looks like.
It's a very simple application,
but basically you enter in the
URLs for each version and you can set
the speed requirement for each one.
Okay, let's go to a demo.
Demo 1, please.
Great.
I'm going to bring up Wirecast here.
What we're actually going to try to do
is demonstrate a live webcast setup with
a relay on the server and then receiving
the webcast on the other machine.
So what I have here,
and I can't lift this up high because
my FireWire cable isn't very long,
simple Sony camcorder
with a DV cam tape in it.
The DV cam tape is our last
live webcast that we produced.
I'm going to turn off this
headphones here so you don't hear it.
But basically you can see this in here.
I'm going to pause it for a moment.
In Wirecast, under Broadcast Settings,
this is where the power
really is in this program,
you can have more than one
stream set up at the same time.
I've already pre-configured
a few of them,
but basically there
are three streams here,
one we call LAN, one we call DSL,
and one we call modem.
They are at 750, 250, approximately 250,
and 40 kilobits per second, respectively.
If you go in and edit one of them,
for example, to 750k,
You can see that we
are using H.264 codec.
We are doing 640 by 360 because
this is a 16.9 aspect program.
And we are doing that at
about 686 kilobits per second.
The audio is at 64 kilobits per second,
MPEG-4 AAC audio.
So the total bit rate
is about 750 kilobits.
Your mileage may vary, as they say,
but I believe that at 750
kilobits or lower you can
get very acceptable quality,
broadcast quality,
as long as your content doesn't
have very high motion or text
tickers like some of Dave's did.
There is an option to set up direct
multicast from here if you want,
but we've got a manual unicast going on.
From each one of these,
we then saved an SDP file,
that unicast SDP file,
to our QuickTime streaming
server's media directory.
I've already done this
in advance to save time,
but as you can see,
there's one for the 40, one for the 250,
and one for the 750.
So I'm going to cancel out of
that right now and close this.
I'm going to hit Broadcast
and hit Play on here.
As you can see, the processor CPU monitor
is running pretty hot here,
but it is certainly within safe limits.
This is a dual 2.7 G5 machine
doing three simultaneous streams.
So if we can go over please to Demo 3.
I'm going to disconnect from my VPN so
that now I'm on the same network segment.
I'm going to start up
QuickTime Player and open a URL to
the Unicast version of this stream,
which is basically the address of
our QuickTime streaming server slash
the name of the Unicast STP file.
If all goes well,
there we have a live webcast
being received in H.264 at
750 kilobits per second.
Now, I know this is all very qualitative,
but I think that that looks pretty
darn good for 750 kilobits per second.
Can bring up one that's at 250.
We'll have to warn you that I know
I don't think the quality on this
one is quite where it should be yet,
but I'm talking with Wirecast about that.
Let me bring up the 40 kilobit
one as well at the same time.
One thing I have always liked about
QuickTime Player is that it lets you open
up multiple windows at the same time.
Windows Media Player still
doesn't let you do that.
There we go.
Okay, so we know that Unicast works.
Let's go over to Demo 2, please.
Okay, so here we are.
Let me hide everything else for
the moment so we can concentrate.
Here we are in server admin,
QuickTime streaming under settings,
and I've clicked on relays.
To set up a relay, a multicast relay,
let me go ahead and delete this one,
and let's just make it from scratch.
I'm going to make one for
the 250 kilobit stream.
So you add a relay.
I recommend calling it by the name of
the stream and then just the word relay.
It makes it simple.
What you're going to want to do if
you're unicasting to the server the way
I am is to request the incoming stream.
The source IP address is localhost.
The path is just the name
of the unicast.sdp file as
it appears on the server,
which is just qt250.sdp.
There we go.
You don't need a username
or password for this.
So let's save that.
Then we need to go over here and
add the destination IP address.
Now this is any multicast IP address
that's valid on your network,
generally anything 239.whatever.
Pretty much any address is going to work,
but you might want to check with your
network administrator to find out a list
of addresses they might be using at that
time so you don't walk on top of them.
I'm just going to pick out 231.1.1.10.
You have to pick a base port number,
and that can be anything 9,000 or higher.
So I'm going to pick, say, 9050.
The TTL is time to live,
and this is the number of router
and switch hops that your multicast
will survive out on the network.
You want to make sure it's set up
to a number at least as high as the
maximum number of routers or switches
between your server and an end user.
I'm going to hit save.
9050 and .10.
Now you have to remember
this information.
So QT250 was 239.1.1.50 and the
port was 90-- was I right on that?
9010.
Thank you.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
Very important.
90/50, right?
Great.
So now we've created our relay.
Next we have to create
our multicast SDP file.
If you go and you start
with your unicast SDP file,
just drop that on text
edit and open it up.
Now this may look a little
scary at the beginning,
but the first thing to do is
go up to this first IP address
and just set it to 0.0.0.0.
That was the address of the encoder,
which is no longer applicable
for a multicast SDP file.
And then this is where the
destination IP needs to go,
239.1.1.10.
Right here and just a little
further down where it says video,
those are the port numbers.
This is where we need to use
that port number we picked.
The audio is the first,
the base port number, 9050,
and the video is the base
port number plus two.
"50-52.
90-52.
There we go.
And now you simply save
this as a new file.
I recommend just tacking on .mc, sdp,
to the same folder.
Now, to the same folder,
let me qualify that.
The SDP file goes on your web server,
not necessarily the same thing as
your QuickTime streaming server.
In this case, for this demo,
I've set up this Mac OS X server
to have web services turned on,
too, and its home directory is the same
directory as the QuickTime streaming
server home directory.
So an HTTP address will
go to the same place.
All right, that file exists.
So now,
if I come back over to demo three,
please.
If all goes well, I ought to be able to
access this multicast now.
by accessing at http,
same address as the unicast,
but add the mc.sdp to it.
Connecting, buffering, there we go.
Live multicast.
I had already done this ahead of
time with the larger stream to
show you what that looks like.
And boom, live multicast of a
750k bit H.264 stream.
In fact, we could, I believe,
QuickTime player lets you receive
multiple multicasts at the same time.
Let's see.
[Transcript missing]
Two multicasts and one unicast.
Thank you very much.
From a single encoder.
Great.
Okay, let me quit out of QuickTime player
and I'll just stop this
over here on Wirecast.
There we go.
All right, back to the slides please.
Okay, what I talked about advocacy,
there are always things that
Apple can do to improve.
They listen to us.
It's very important that you give
them feedback so that they know where
you're hurting and what they can
do to make their products better.
I'm not going to go into
these in some detail,
but I would encourage you to go
to the QuickTime feedback forum,
which is tomorrow.
Is it at 3.30, Stephen?
Yeah, it's at 3.30 tomorrow.
Please show up.
Please let them know
what you'd like to see.
Here are some of mine.
They've done a great job since last year
of addressing a lot of my questions.
I hope that you're able to use
QuickTime in your enterprise,
too.
Thanks.